# Dual-Channel-Audio-Equalizer

This repository contains the schematic and PCB of a dual channel audio equalizer. This audio equalizer was created as a semester class project for my electronics circuits course. This audio equalizer functions based on modifying frequencies on the fly with potentiometers. Each potentiometer is paired with a group of resistors and capacitors giving the user control over a range of frequencies in the base, midband and treble ranges. Adjusting the potentiometer will adjust the impedence of the range's circuitry changing the frequency of the input sound. The sound input is split into left and right channels to provide the user with independently adjustable stereo sound. 

Additionally, I attached a short document that explains how the potentiometer adjustments change the frequency. In this example, I consider the base adjustment of the left channel. When the potentiometer is set to 0 on the left, all the potentiometer's resistance is placed onto the right branch of the base circuitry. The genral shape of this structure can be described as a T model equivalent circuit. Looking at the impedence of the left channel with this potentiometer setting, we can do a T to Delta transformation to isolate the impedence of the left branch (derived from RA in the example). Illustrated in the bottom graph, as we work through the formula, we arrive at 21K impedence on the left branch giving us an expected 80dB of base with this potentiometer position. Moving the potentiometers back and forth will allow us to adjust the impedence of the channel and by extention the decibels of the signal to allow the user to change the volume.
